Final CRUD Project Documentation: 

For my final project, I was inspired to create a vinyl record collection “catalog”, as I have recently begun collecting vinyl records, and thought this would be a great way to display and keep track of the ones that I own as my collection grows. 
To implement this, and follow the CRUD guidelines, I used functions and jQuery to carry out the methods Create, Read, Update, and Delete.
To Create a new vinyl, I made a function “getNewVinyl” containing jquery and methods to dynamically update the HTML layout. Within the HTML, there are input fields in the aside element for the user to enter in the information for a new vinyl, and press an “add vinyl” button to create the new vinyl object, and append the attributes to a new card. The function then appends the input to the elements with the ID’s associated with their input fields. Once the button is pressed to create the new vinyl, the push() method is used to add a new vinyl to the vinyl array.
  
To Read the array, I made a function called “ getVinylCard”, which uses the forEach() method to read through the array of vinyls, and essentially grabs the items from object with the index using ${}, and appends the values from the vinyl objects into the HTML tags. For each vinyl, it creates a card, which is added to the cardbox using .append(). The HTML for this card displays the album name, photo, and artist, as well as the buttons to view more details, modify, and delete a vinyl.
  
In addition to the main card, the button to view more details shows additional details for the vinyl selected. It uses the same methodology as the main card, and the card from before is essentially just replaced with the details card.
  
To Update a vinyl, I used a function called “editVinyl” to modify the existing data for a vinyl. First, I created a variable “card” which finds each individual card in the cardbox, based on its index. To edit the details, new input fields are added within the card, which grab the user inputs for each property, and appends the updated properties to the HTML. When the user hits the “save changes” button below the input fields, the inputs get applied to the “update id’s”, which are applied to the original properties in the array. The user is notified using an alert that the vinyl properties have been changed. The functions to for the cards to be displayed, and the button functions are called again after clearing the old values.
 
To Delete a vinyl, I used the function “deleteVinyl”. It calls for the index of the card where the “delete” button is selected, and uses the splice function to remove the vinyl from the index. Then, the cardbox is set to clear out using the empty() method, and the remaining cards are brought back by calling the getVinylCard() function again. An alert is used to tell the user the card is successfully deleted. 
I used a handler to manage the buttons, a function called functionButton(). When a button in the cardbox is clicked, it grabs the index of the card and the type of button that was pressed, the type is then passes to if/else statements to determine if the button was to edit, modify, or delete a vinyl. Once it is determined, the function for the event is called and carried out. 
 
Lastly, to call the functions to execute when the page is opened to display the HTML layout, cards, etc. I used  the $(document).ready() function to call the functions to display the layout of the page, the new vinyl input boxes, display the vinyl cards, and apply the functions to the buttons. 
